docs: add glossary guide (#1895)
asyncapi/community: docs/styleguide/glossary.md

---
title: Glossary
description: The style guide gives advice on how to effectively use terms and concepts when creating tutorials and other forms of content for AsyncAPI.

> weight: 99

Reviewer: ```suggestion
weight: 180
```

> weight: 100

Author: ```suggestion
weight: 99
```

---
## What is the purpose of the glossary?

> **AsyncAPI's** glossary is a collection of terms and concepts that are commonly used throughout the product's documentation. It helps technical writers, developers, and other types of contributors stay consistent in their usage of these terms and concepts when writing tutorials and other forms of content for the product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**AsyncAPI's** glossary is a collection of terms and concepts that are commonly used throughout the documentation. It helps technical writers, developers, and other contributors consistently use these terms and concepts when writing tutorials and other forms of content.
```

|--------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **AsyncAPI** | An open-source initiative and specification for defining asynchronous APIs to support the design, documentation, and development of event-driven architectures. | *Channel*  | A *channel* is a mechanism created by the server that facilitates the organization and transmission of messages.       |
| **Message**  | A structured piece of data transmitted between systems, typically containing an event, command, or response.                                                    | *Protocol* | A {'{'}`protocol`{'}'} is a set of rules that governs the exchange of information between applications and/or servers. |

> ## Additional Resources

Reviewer: remove this section or rather have one or two examples

Reviewer: also the links are not directing to a glossary section but style guide

---
title: Glossary
description: The style guide gives advice on how to effectively use terms and concepts when creating tutorials and other forms of content for AsyncAPI.
weight: 100
---
## What's the glossary purpose?

**AsyncAPI's** glossary is a collection of terms and concepts that are commonly used throughout the product's documentation. It helps technical writers, developers, and other types of contributors stay consistent in their usage of these terms and concepts when writing tutorials and other forms of content for the product.

## Tips for Contributors

When adding a new term to the glossary, updating the definition of an existing term, or adding a new concept to the glossary, consider doing the following:

> -  ✅ **Propose new terms by [raising an issue on the website's repository on GitHub](): This would help maintainers ensure that they fit AsyncAPI's documentation. 

Author: ```suggestion
-  ✅ **Propose new terms by [raising an issue on the website's repository on GitHub](https://github.com/asyncapi/website/issues): This would help maintainers ensure that they fit AsyncAPI's documentation. 
```

-  ✅ **Provide clear yet specific definitions and descriptions**: This helps ensure that the glossary is easy to understand and use.
- ✅ **Keep it plain and simple**: Avoid using jargon or technical terms in the descriptions. This ensures that the glossary is accessible to a wide audience that may not be familiar to everyone.
- ✅ **Use sentence case for definitions**: This makes the glossary easier to read and navigate.
- ✅ **Present them in alphabetical order**: This makes it easier for users to find the term or concept they're looking for.

## Formatting Guidelines

When referencing & writing terms and concepts in the glossary, use the following formatting guidelines:

> - ✅ Use `###Term Name` for as the term's headings.

Author: ```suggestion
- ✅ Use `### Term Name` as the heading for each term.
```

- ✅ Add hyperlinks to terms and concepts mentioned in tutorials and other forms of documentation.

> - ✅ Use backticks to referenced terms and concepts.

Author: ```suggestion
- ✅ Use backticks to reference terms and concepts.
```

### Examples
Here are some examples of terms being used in tutorials & written as headings:
1. Term:
```md
### Channel
```
2. Concept being used in a sentence
```md
In the context of designing and setting up an event-driven application, servers are responsible for delivering asynchronous messages from the producer to the consumers through the use of {'{'}`**[channel]**(https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/concepts/channel)`{'}'}. 
```
## Additional Resources

For more tips on contributing to the glossary, consider consulting the following sources:

> - [Write the Docs: Style Guides](
> - [Gatsby Style Guide](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/contributing/docs-and-triaging/#docs-style-guide)
> - [Gatsby Docs Structure & Documentation Types](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/docs-structure/)
> - [Mozilla Style Guide](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/MDN/Guidelines/Writing_style_guide)
> - [Google Developer Documentation Style Guide](https://developers.google.com/style)
> - [Microsoft Style Guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/welcome/)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Create a glossary for software documentation](https://indoc.pro/documentation-types/glossary/)
- [API Glossary](https://idratherbewriting.com/learnapidoc/docapis_glossary_section.html)
- [Glossaries aid clarity](https://www.techscribe.co.uk/techw/glossaries.htm)

```
